Synapse 1.61 (#1360)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/blog/2022/06/2022-06-17-synapse-1.61.mdx

---
date: '2022-06-17'
title: Synapse 1.61 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Brendan Abolivier
---

Hey everyone! Guess what? [Synapse
1.61](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.61.0) is out! Let's
have a look at it.

## Farewell, groups

If you are new to Matrix, you might have not heard of the feature referred to as
"groups" or "communities" (depending on the context). This feature allowed

> grouping rooms and users to better represent a community, one of which being
> `+matrix:matrix.org` which used to represent the Matrix community. This may
> sound similar to [Matrix
> spaces](https://matrix.org/blog/2021/05/17/the-matrix-space-beta), and it would
> make sense since spaces is meant to be a more powerful replacement to groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
grouping rooms and users to better represent a community, one of which being
`+matrix:matrix.org` which used to represent the Matrix community. This may
sound similar to [Matrix
Spaces](https://matrix.org/blog/2021/05/17/the-matrix-space-beta), and it would
make sense since Spaces are meant to be a more powerful replacement for groups.
```

> As of [Synapse 1.56](https://matrix.org/blog/2022/04/05/synapse-1-56-released),
> support for groups has been deprecated, with a plan to fully remove it in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Synapse 1.56](https://matrix.org/blog/2022/04/05/synapse-1-56-released),
support for groups was deprecated, with a plan to fully remove it in a
```

> later release of Synapse. This is now done as of Synapse 1.61, and most of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
later release of Synapse. This has now been done as of Synapse 1.61, and most of the
```

code supporting this feature has now been removed.

Note that this means that administrators of homeservers using workers can remove
endpoints related to groups from their reverse proxy configuration. See [the
upgrade
notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.61/upgrade.html#removal-of-deprecated-communitygroups)
for more information.

## Media retention

A common issue we see homeserver administrators struggle with is managing the
disk space used by Synapse. A non-negligible part of that disk space usage is
dedicated to storing files uploaded by Matrix users, both local and remote.

Up until now Synapse would only provide administrators with limited, manual ways
to manage the media store of their homeserver, via the [admin
API](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/develop/admin_api/media_admin_api.html).
As of this release, Synapse now allows administrators to define retention

> lifetimes for local and remote media. This allows media that hasn't been

Reviewer: As a HS admin I'd be interested if this is a separate knob for each of local and remote?
This sentence doesn't really make it clear one way or the other. Afraid I can't think of the best words to do so at the moment though.
